# Argument-0220: Retention at Rank III

|                 |                                                                                             |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Report Date** | 2025/11/19                                                             |
| **Submitted by**| Oliver Tale-Yazdi                                                                        |

## Member details

- Matrix username: `@oliver.tale-yazdi:parity.io`
- Polkadot address: `16a357f5Sxab3V2ne4emGQvqJaCLeYpTMx3TCjnQhmJQ71DX`
- Current rank: `III (Fellow)`
- Date of initial induction: `2022/11/21`
- Date of last report: `2025/05/18`
- Area(s) of Expertise/Interest:
  - `the Polkadot business-logic (aka the 'runtime')`

## Reporting period

- Start date: 2025/12/11
- End date: 2026/06/11


## Argument

I argue to be worthy of rank III retention by proving fulfillment of the following requirements:

Quote from the Manifesto 6.4:

>a Fellow indicates the individual has enough knowledge and skill to build 
substantial protocol components (i.e. all but the major protocol components,
e.g. a pallet or 2-10,000 line crate) alone and with high expectations that they
will be completed correctly and to a high standard.

I delivered large parts of the RC and AH Migrator pallets. They were shown to work correctly by moving over the whole Polkadot relay chain state to the Asset Hub. This was not an accident as we tested them many times in advance to be completely confident.

6.4 follows:
>They should be able and willing to support that which they built
given that it is running 24/7 on a public network. This means a commitment to availability even when it may be
inconvenient for them and, in periods of lesser-availability, taking on a responsibility to make this clear to their team
prior.

This has been amply demonstrated during three security responses that were short noticed and at inconvenient times ([staking origin check missing](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/pull/997/files), staking issuance wrong and one other undisclosed issue). The day of the asset hub migration was a team working day and lasted for about 16 hrs (migration & unrelated security response) which shows high dedication to the network.

I also created a convenient way for users to [see their crowdloan contributions](https://polkadot-crowdloan.com/) after the migration. This was necessary to help bootstrap other UIs that did not know where to find this information and were asking me.

Less relevant but still noteworthy contributions of mine to the ecosystem:
- Contracts based knowledge sharing platform to explain Polkadot specific abbreviations: https://polkadot.fyi/ (not yet announced)
- C Service SDK playground as preparation for JAM: https://playground.jamcha.in/

## Voting record

|  Ranks | Activity thresholds | Agreement thresholds | Member's voting activities | Comments |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|III|70%   |100%  | ≥ 89.64%  | According to my own calculations. Subscan shows about 90%. |
